The system has the following features:
1. Real-time GPS-Based Location Tracking. The application features real-time monitoring of the location of the IoT-powered garbage bins using GPS technology, providing accurate and up-to-date information on their whereabouts.
2. Bin Scanning and Detection. The application can locate nearby garbage bins within a fixed portion of the area by tapping on the scan button. The application will prompt the user in response if a garbage bin is found after the scanning process.
3. User and System Administrator Dashboards. The user dashboard functions as the default interface of the application. The major features which include bin scanning and detection as well as viewing the locations of the bins on a map, are accessible to regular users. On the other hand, administrators also have a dashboard of their own that enables them to have exclusive access to certain features by logging in to the system, including the ability to see and know whether the bin has been moved from its previous position or is out of the fixed radius detection zone.
5. API-Integrated Map Display. Through the integration of the Google Maps API, a map is displayed in the application interface, showing information on the current location of the user and the garbage bins as well as showing the path from the user to the bin upon tapping on the bin marker icon.
6. Bin Markers. These are red dots that appear on the map, indicating the current position of the bin. Tapping on it will show the name of the bin embedded in the icon and the path that the user needs to take to reach the location of the bin. The placement of these markers on the map will depend on the coordinates of the garbage bin that are read by the GPS module and saved on the database. In other words, placing the bin in another area after a few minutes will also update the information on the database, changing the position of the bin marker in real-time.
